>> Steve Kinney: So up until now,
our database has been wide open and
free for
anyone to do whatever to anything.
That's cool for doing development, but
not really a long term game plan
cuz people on the Internet are bad.
And so we're gonna talk a little about
how we actually set up the kind of
security rules for our database.
We basically need to find what
a given user is allowed to do, and
Firebase enforces all the rest of it for
us.
So let's look at what security rules
look like for Cloud Firestore.
So, you have the service which is
Cloud Firestore, and then this
variable there in the curly brackets that
database says which database to match.
Now, right now in Cloud Firestore there
is only one database and it's default.
This is I think more future proofing so
if they ever offer multiple databases,
that can be a thing.
But for
right now there is one database, so
that variable of which database
will always be default.
So for the default database and then we
can have some additional rules in there.
Now there are a bunch of different
actions that we can whitelist.
By default, everything,
once everything is blacklisted,
you turn on certain abilities, right?
Really you have read and write, right?
So if you turn on read there is
the ability to get a given document or
to list all of the documents
in a collection.
Read is both of them, get and
list are the two more granular options.
So if you turn on read, you're gonna get
both the ability to get a single document,
as well as all the ones in a collection.
But you can say, okay, they can't see all
the documents in this collection, but
they know exactly which one they want,
then they can go ahead and get that one.
So if you had file, like maybe you had
all of, making a Google Docs clone.
You have all the documents
in a collection, right?
And maybe you keep those IDs on
the user profile and so, okay,
if you know which one already,
you can go and get it, but
you're not going to be able
to scan through all of them.
And then for write, if you turn on write,
they have all the ability to create,
update and delete.
But you can also get granular if you
want and say, okay, I want this rule for
creating, this other rule for
updating, and nobody can delete.
And like,
you can get granular if you want.
Or, you can kind of like batch
them all in either read or write.
So we haven't talked too much
about sub-collections yet, but
we can see if you nest them they kind
of extend from the previous one.
So this would be a comment
sub-collection under posts.
The other thing to notice is that
we have these variables in there,
right, these dynamic segments.
So postId will give you a variable
called postId you can work with and
do logic with as well.
And comments will be
the comment idea in that case.
And you can also see that we're starting
to get some of the logic in there,
we'll allow read or write if in some
condition we haven't written yet.
So for a given comment, if whatever
condition we haven't written yet
is met, they can both read and
write to them.
If you want to just start matching all
the way down, like we know that we can go
an arbitrary depth of collection,
document, collection, document.
This document=**, we'll just go
the rest to the way down for the rules.
So you can get very specific.
Or you can batch go through all of them.
So here's one that we might
very well need very soon.
This is a little different than what
we're actually gonna implement.
But this is for any of the posts
that they can read and/or
write to them only if.
So we have this request object.
This is the request coming into
the database that has the auth.
So only if the request.auth.uid
is not null.
So this would be, a user can read or
write to any post in the post collections
as long as they're logged in.
Right.
If they're not logged in,
they can't even read.
So we're gonna have one where anyone
who visits the page can read but
if they wanna create one,
then they are gonna have to be logged in.
And if they're gonna wanna delete one,
they're gonna have to own that one.
So we're gonna get little
bit more granular than this.
But it starts to show you how
the conditional logic works and
how we can start to define
some of these rules.
This one is for modifying only own data.
So in this case, this would be for
a user's profile.
We can create one, as long as they're
logged in anyone can create, you know,
create one for that user.
But in order to read that profile update
or delete it, the request.auth.uid needs
to equal the uid of that document,
the id of that document.
Right, so you can kinda build up
the kinda more granular logic as you go,
you could also do a little
bit of validation, right.
So resource.data will
be all the fields that
are currently in the database, right,
so that it is as it already sits.
If that document already exists.
Request.resource.data will
have the incoming changes.
Right so, if they're creating one
it's only request.resource.data, but
if they were deleting or modifying it,
then we could see, like, okay,
I want to look at either one of those.
So, you can kind of get a little bit like,
you wanna say okay, only if they have
the secret API key for that document or
something like that, right.
So you can check ones stored on there.
You can get really specific to be like,
okay, if there is a user
document that has an admin bit, turn
to true, then they can do these things.
You can kind of be able to look
at different documents and
figure some of this stuff out like that.
You can actually access
other documents as well.
So for instance, we have that request
off that uid which tells us which user,
we can go ahead, look at a user profile,
which we're going to create later
which is this a document about a user.
And we say, okay are they in admin,
do they own this document?
So on and so forth and so
you can get pretty logical,
we're going to keep, we're going to get.
Kind of like to intermediate depth here,
we're not gonna like pull from other
documents, but we are gonna have those
different stages, like anyone can read,
only owner can delete, anyone who is
logged in can create, so on and so forth.
But you can actually like query
other things for permissions.
So you can say okay, this user,
what documents do they own?
Is this post in the list of
ones created by that user?
If so, they can do this thing,
so on and so forth.
So you can have three different users
who are allowed to go ahead and
delete a given one, right?
And so you can structure
your data in different ways,
you can query other documents to figure
out what happens in the security rule.
>> Steve Kinney: Security rules are all or
nothing, if anything.
By a default, everything is blacklisted.
If any rule,
if you have two conditions, right?
If any of them are true,
then the user can do that thing, right?
So if you have two duplicate statements,
and it's false in one case,
true in the other, they can do it.
So you do need to be a little bit careful.
You can also do things like
limiting the size, so like for
instance we know that you pay based on
the size of the query that you’re getting
back, so you could put security
rules in place like hey,
at most you know,
as long as the limit is 10 or less, cool.
Otherwise if they try to pull
all 60 million, not cool, right?
And see you can start to limit
like all sorts of other things,
like how many they get in and
so on and so forth.
Cool, this is what we have right now.
This is every document in the database.
The one other text notes
that I didn't mention,
you can actually write functions as well,
effectively.
This is not JavaScript obviously,
but you can write functions
that look like JavaScript.
For some of the more complicated ones,
if you find yourself reusing it,
you can start to pull it
out into functions as well.
But this is what we have right
now in our database, which is for
that default database, the only database,
for any document, allow whoever and
whatever to read and write,
no matter what, with no conditions.
So yeah,
we don't want to show that to production.
We are gonna want to get
a little bit more specific.
And as we add other
collections to our database,
we're gonna need to refine
these rules a little bit.
But the very least,
we can get to a good start here.